Extend promotions page with order promotions (#1067)
saleor/saleor-docs: docs/developer/discounts/promotions.mdx

Promotions enable price reductions based on specific conditions.
These conditions are defined as predicates in the promotion rules.
A promotion can consist of multiple rules, but each rule can only belong to one promotion.

> There are two type od promotions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two type of promotions:
```

> There are two type of promotions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two types of promotions:
```

> - catalogue promotions - reduce the product price visible by the customer,

Author: It's not a mistake. It could end with nothing or `,` or `;`

> - catalogue promotions - reduce the product price visible by the customer,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- catalogue promotions - reduce the product price visible to the customer,
```

> - order promotions - applied on checkout / draft order when object fulfill

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- order promotions - applied on checkout / draft order when the object fulfill
```

> - order promotions - applied on checkout / draft order when the object fulfill

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- order promotions - applied on checkout / draft order when the object fulfilled
```

  the rule conditions.

All rules within promotion must be of one type `CATALOGUE` or `ORDER`.

> The type of rule is determine by the promotion to which the rule is assigned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The type of rule is determined by the promotion to which the rule is assigned.
```

## Promotion type

The type of promotion determines whether to give the `CATALOGUE` or `ORDER` discount.
For the `CATALOGUE` type, all rules within the promotion must have the `cataloguePredicate` defined,
while for the `ORDER` type, the `orderPredicate` must be defined.

## Rewards value

Reward value is defined on the promotion rule level and specify the amount and type of the discount
that will be applied when the defined conditions are met.
Currently, there is only `FIXED` or `PRECENTAGE` discount available.

## Reward type

Reward type is applicable only for order promotions and specify what kind of reward
will be given when the defined conditions are met.
Currently, only `SUBTOTAL_DISCOUNT` is available so that the order subtotal price will be reduced.

## Predicates

Predicates define the conditions to be met to apply the reward.
Allows defining complex nested conditions in the same way as in `where` filters, with `AND` and `OR` operators,
combined with operations (e.g. `eq`, `oneOf`).
To get to know how to build complex conditions reach out to the [filters page](/api-usage/filtering.mdx#general-approach).

### Catalogue predicate

> Catalogue level predicates allow to definition of the conditions for variants, products, collections and categories.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Catalogue level predicates allow to define conditions for variants, products, collections and categories.
```

- Define the product fixed or parentage discounts based on certain conditions.
- Define the discount available only for a specific period.

### Order promotions

> The discounts from order rules are automatically applied during checkout or draft order when certain conditions are met.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The discounts from order rules are automatically applied during checkout or draft orders when certain conditions are met.
```

Only the discount from the promotion rule that provides the maximum savings for the customer is applied.

> The order discounts can be combined with catalogue discount, and in such cases, the discount is calculated based on the discounted price.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The order discounts can be combined with catalogue discounts, and in such cases, the discount is calculated based on the discounted price.
```

> This kind of promotion discount required providing the `rewardType` that described what

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This kind of promotion discount requires providing the `rewardType` that describes what
```

kind of discount will be applied after meeting the conditions.

> Current available reward types are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently available reward types are:
```

- `SUBTOTAL_DISCOUNT` - applies the discount on subtotal price

For example, consider a checkout with only one product that is on catalogue discount, and the discounted price is **$12**.

> The best promotion rule for this checkout is giving **10%** discount on subtotal price.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The best promotion rule for this checkout is giving a **10%** discount on the subtotal price.
```

In this scenario, the order discount will be **10%** from **$12** resulting in a savings of **$1.2**.

:::note
For now, the order promotions are applicable only on checkouts, and not on draft orders.
:::

:::info

> Number od `PromotionRule` with `ORDER` predicate type is limited to 100.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The number of `PromotionRule` with `ORDER` predicate type is limited to 100.
```

- **Promotion rule:** Defines the reward that will be given when the specified conditions are met.
- **Catalogue predicate:** Defines the conditions to be met on the catalogue level. When the conditions are met, the discount is applied automatically to corresponding variant prices.
- **Order predicate:** Defines the conditions to be met by checkout or draft order. When the conditions are met, the discount is applied automatically.
- **Reward value:** Defines the amount of the discount.
- **Reward value type:** Describe if the provided reward value is the fixed or percentage discount.
- **Reward type:** Describe what kind of reward is given when the promotion rule conditions are met. (Applicable only for order promotions).
- **Base prices:** Prices after applying catalogue promotions, do not include vouchers or order discounts.

## Promotion type

The type of promotion determines whether to give the `CATALOGUE` or `ORDER` discount.
For the `CATALOGUE` type, all rules within the promotion must have the `cataloguePredicate` defined,
while for the `ORDER` type, the `orderPredicate` must be defined.

## Rewards value

> Reward value is defined on the promotion rule level and specify the amount and type of the discount

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reward value is defined on the promotion rule level and specifies the amount and type of the discount
```

that will be applied when the defined conditions are met.
Currently, there is only `FIXED` or `PRECENTAGE` discount available.

## Reward type

Reward type is applicable only for order promotions and specify what kind of reward
will be given when the defined conditions are met.

> Currently, only `SUBTOTAL_DISCOUNT` is available so that the order subtotal price will be reduced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, only `SUBTOTAL_DISCOUNT` is available so the order subtotal price will be reduced.
```

## Base prices

> Base prices are the prices after applying catalogue promotions and do not include vouchers or order discounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Base prices are the prices after applying for catalogue promotions and do not include vouchers or order discounts.
```

The subtotal price is the sum of the discounted total price of lines, the total price is subtotal
plus the base delivery price.

## Predicates

Predicates define the conditions to be met to apply the reward.
Allows defining complex nested conditions in the same way as in `where` filters, with `AND` and `OR` operators,
combined with operations (e.g. `eq`, `oneOf`).
To get to know how to build complex conditions reach out to the [filters page](/api-usage/filtering.mdx#general-approach).

### Catalogue predicate

> Catalogue level predicates allow to define conditions for variants, products, collections and categories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Catalogue level predicates allow defining conditions for variants, products, collections, and categories.
```

}
```

### Order predicate

The order predicates enable the definition of conditions for checkout and draft order objects based on their attributes.
Currently, it is only possible to define conditions based on the base total and subtotal price.

Catalogue and order promotion discounts can be combined. Therefore, during checkout or draft order qualification,
the discounted price (after applying any catalogue discount) is utilized.

### Order discount examples

- **10%** discount applied when the subtotal price is above **$20** applied on subtotal price

```json
{
  "promotionRule": {
    "orderPredicate": {
      "discountedObjectPredicate": {
        "baseSubtotalPrice": {
          "range": { "gte": 20 }
        }
      }
    },
    "rewardValueType": "PERCENTAGE",
    "rewardValue": 10,
    "rewardType": "SUBTOTAL_DISCOUNT"
  }
}
```

- **$5** discount applied when the total price is above **$50** applied on subtotal price

```json
{
  "promotionRule": {
    "orderPredicate": {
      "discountedObjectPredicate": {

>         "baseTotalPrice": {

Reviewer 3: btw. Shouldn't be `baseSubtotalPrice`?

Author: No, why?
The case is:
`**$5** discount applied when the total price is above **$50** applied on subtotal price`

}
```

### Order predicate

The order predicates enable the definition of conditions for checkout and draft order objects based on their attributes.

> Currently, it is only possible to define conditions based on the base total and base subtotal price.

Author: I added the `base prices` explanation to `Glossary`

The mutation takes the following input:

- `name`: optional name of the promotion rule.
- `description`: optional description of the promotion rule.
- `promotion`: define to which promotion the rule should be part of.
- `channels`: define in which channels the rule should be applicable.
- `rewardValueType`: define the type of discount `PERCENTAGE`/`FIXED`.
- `rewardValue`: define the value of the discount.

> - `rewardType`: define the type of reward. Required for `checkoutAndOrder` promotion rules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `rewardType`: define the type of reward. Required for order promotion rules.
```

The mutation takes the following input:

- `name`: optional name of the promotion rule.
- `description`: optional description of the promotion rule.
- `promotion`: define to which promotion the rule should be part of.
- `channels`: define in which channels the rule should be applicable.
- `rewardValueType`: define the type of discount `PERCENTAGE`/`FIXED`.
- `rewardValue`: define the value of the discount.
- `rewardType`: define the type of reward. Required for order promotion rules.
- `cataloguePredicate`: defines the conditions to be met to apply catalogue discount.

>   **Required for rule that belong to `CATALOGUE` promotion.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  **Required for the rule that belongs to `CATALOGUE` promotion.**
```

  Allows defining complex nested conditions with `AND` and `OR` operators.
- `orderPredicate`: defines the conditions to be met to apply order discount.

>   **Required for rule that belong to `ORDER` promotion.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  **Required for the rule that belongs to `ORDER` promotion.**
```

}
```

#### Creation of order promotion rule

The following example demonstrates the creation of a order promotion rule that

> gives **10%** subtotal price discount on checkout/draft order that subtotal price is greatest

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
gives **10%** subtotal price discount on checkout/draft order that subtotal price is greater
```

than or equal to **20**.
For this kind of promotion rule, you must provide `orderPredicate` abd `rewardType`,
it can be defined only for promotion with `ORDER` type.

:::info
Price-based predicates are only allowed for promotion rules in which all assigned channels have the same currency.
:::

```graphql
mutation promotionRuleCreate($input: PromotionRuleCreateInput!) {
  promotionRuleCreate(input: $input) {
    promotionRule {
      id
      name
      description
      promotion {
        id
      }
      channels {
        id
      }
      rewardValueType
      rewardValue
      orderPredicate
    }
  }
}
```

Query variables:

```json
{
  "input": {
    "name": "10% percentage order discount",
    "promotion": "UHJvbW90aW9uOjEyMzA0YmM4LTA2ZTMtNDg1Mi05ODU1LWM4ZDkyMDgzNTYwZA==",
    "channels": ["Q2hhbm5lbDoy"],
    "rewardValueType": "PERCENTAGE",
    "rewardValue": "10",
    "rewardType": "SUBTOTAL_DISCOUNT",
    "orderPredicate": {
      "discountedObjectPredicate": {
        "baseSubtotalPrice": {
          "range": { "gte": 20 }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Discounted price recalculations

> Discounted price are calculating based on catalogue promotions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Discounted price is calculated based on catalogue promotions.
```

}
```

#### Creation of order promotion rule

> The following example demonstrates the creation of a order promotion rule that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates the creation of an order promotion rule that
```

discounts multiplied by the quantity of the line gives the total discount, which is
equal to the difference between `order.total` and `order.undiscountedTotal`.

## Processing checkout with an applied order promotion

> Below you can see an example of checkout data with applied order discount from order promotion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below you can see an example of checkout data with an applied order discount from an order promotion
```

          "amount": 35.0,
          "currency": "USD"
        }
      },
      "shippingPrice": {
        "gross": {
          "amount": 7.5,
          "currency": "USD"
        }
      },
      "deliveryMethod": {
        "id": "U2hpcHBpbmdNZXRob2Q6MQ=="
      },
      "lines": [
        {
          "id": "Q2hlY2tvdXRMaW5lOjkzOTk0OTgxLThmNWItNDg1OS04NzZmLTM1MmY5YjEyMTJlMg==",
          "quantity": 2,
          "undiscountedTotalPrice": {
            "amount": 40.0
          },
          "totalPrice": {
            "gross": {
              "amount": 35.0
            }
          },
          "unitPrice": {
            "gross": {
              "amount": 17.5
            }
          },
          "undiscountedUnitPrice": {
            "amount": 20.0
          },
          "variant": {
            "pricing": {
              "onSale": false,
              "discount": null,
              "priceUndiscounted": {
                "gross": {
                  "amount": 20.0
                }
              },
              "price": {
                "gross": {
                  "amount": 20.0
                }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

> The discount is visible on the discount.amount field at the checkout level,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The discount is visible on the `discount.amount` field at the checkout level,
```

        "totalCaptured": {
          "amount": 42.5
        },
        "subtotal": {
          "gross": {
            "amount": 35.0
          }
        },
        "total": {
          "gross": {
            "amount": 42.5
          }
        },
        "undiscountedTotal": {
          "gross": {
            "amount": 47.5
          }
        },
        "discounts": [
          {
            "name": "Example order promo: order rule",
            "type": "ORDER_PROMOTION",
            "valueType": "FIXED",
            "amount": {
              "amount": 5.0
            }
          }
        ],
        "lines": [
          {
            "quantity": 2,
            "totalPrice": {
              "gross": {
                "amount": 35.0
              }
            },
            "unitPrice": {
              "gross": {
                "amount": 17.5
              }
            },
            "undiscountedUnitPrice": {
              "gross": {
                "amount": 20.0
              }
            },
            "unitDiscount": {
              "amount": 2.5
            }
          }
        ]
      },
      "errors": []
    }
  }
}
```

## Catalogue and order promotions

> Catalogue and order promotions can be mixed together. In such case the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Catalogue and order promotions can be mixed. In such cases the
```

> order discount is applied on discounted price.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
order discount is applied on the discounted price.
```

        },
        "discounts": [
          {
            "name": "Example order promo: order rule",
            "type": "ORDER_PROMOTION",
            "valueType": "FIXED",
            "amount": {
              "amount": 5.0
            }
          }
        ],
        "lines": [
          {
            "quantity": 2,
            "totalPrice": {
              "gross": {
                "amount": 23.0
              }
            },
            "unitPrice": {
              "gross": {
                "amount": 11.5
              }
            },
            "undiscountedUnitPrice": {
              "gross": {
                "amount": 20.0
              }
            },
            "unitDiscount": {
              "amount": 8.5
            }
          }
        ]
      },
      "errors": []
    }
  }
}
```

## Catalogue Promotion and Voucher

Catalogue promotions and vouchers can be combined. In this case, the voucher discount
is applied to the price after the promotion discount.
[Here](developer/discounts/vouchers.mdx/#catalogue-promotion-and-voucher-together) you can find the example of such scenario.

## Order Promotion and Voucher

Order promotion cannot be mixed with Vouchers.

> When voucher code is added, the discount from order promotion is not applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a voucher code is added, the discount from the order promotion is not applied.
```

## Charts that show the discounts flow

> #### Following chart is showing an order in which discounts apply:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### The following chart shows an order in which discounts apply:
```

```mermaid
graph TD
    A(Base undiscounted price) --> B[Apply catalogue discounts]
    B --> Z{Voucher code added?}
    Z --> |No| K[Apply `checkoutAndOrder` discount]
    K --> E
    Z --> |Yes| C[Apply lines vouchers - `ONCE_PER_ORDER`, `SPECIFIC_PRODUCT`]
    C --> D[Apply `ENTIRE_ORDER` voucher]
    D --> E[Apply taxes]
```

> #### Below chart is showing the process of applying `ORDER` promotion discount

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Below the chart shows the process of applying the `ORDER` promotion discount
```

```mermaid
graph TD
    A(Base discounted price) --> B[Collect all `ORDER` promotion rules that apply]

>     B --> C[Choose the promotion rule hat gives the best saving for user]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    B --> C[Choose the promotion rule that gives the best saving for the user]
```
